# Simple Data-fetching

## 📝 Your Notes

Elaborate on your learnings here in `src/exercise/01.md`

FYI, I didn't do any of the extra credits.

Some of what I learned:

- The gist is (or, in other words, the thing to ultimately grok from all this)
  that the React team is trying to find a way to have devs declaratively tell
  React what parts of their code are seeking async data. Then, React will
  automatically suspend rendering until that async thing has been acquired. And
  React will show a fallback component in the meantime while you get the async
  thing.
  - This way, you not only are saved from a ton of handwritten logic you'd have
    to write yourself (and therefore make it more likely that you'll get a bug),
    but because it's so declarative, React has a lot of breathing room to handle
    the behavior behind-the-scenes in whatever way they think is best. This
    leads to performance improvements, for instance.
- Realized the fact that doing async stuff w/ React is really not too hard of an
  idea to think about. At the end of the day, you just have a component that
  needs to get some data asynchronously and that'll show a fallback while it's
  doing that. And when the async promise settles, you'll either show the actual
  component or you'll show an error component.
  - What sucks I guess, is that you'd need to make 3 or even 4 components, where
    if there was no async data needed you'd only need 1. The 4 components:
    - Your normal component (status === 'resolved')
    - A fallback component to show while rendering (status === 'pending')
    - (Technically optional but highly recommended, practically a requirement)
      An error component to show if there was an error when getting the async
      data (you even have the possibility of giving the user a button to try
      again or something similar) (status === 'error')
    - (possibly) An idle component to show when for whatever reason your
      component is in a state where it doesn't need to fetch anything (and the
      'resolved' state does not apply) and for whatever reason you'd like to
      show something in that scenario. It for ex. can make sense to do this in
      the pokemon info component if the pokemonName is an empty string. (status
      === 'idle')

## Background

We're going to start off as simple as possible, but it's still going to feel a
little different from anything you've probably done with async data loading
before, so buckle up.

First, there's the Suspense API. Here's the basic idea:

```javascript
function Component() {
  if (data) {
    return <div>{data.message}</div>
  }
  throw promise
  // React will catch this, find the closest "Suspense" component
  // and "suspend" everything from there down from rendering until the
  // promise resolves.
  // 🚨 THIS "API" IS LIKELY TO CHANGE
}

ReactDOM.createRoot(rootEl).render(
  <React.Suspense fallback={<div>loading...</div>}>
    <Component />
  </React.Suspense>,
)
```

That's the idea. Where the `data` and `promise` values are coming from all
depends on how you implement things, and that's what we're going to do in this
exercise.

Imagine when your app loads, you need some data before you can show anything
useful. Typically we want to put the data loading requirements right in the
component that requires the data, via something like this:

```javascript
React.useEffect(() => {
  let current = true
  setState({status: 'pending'})
  doAsyncThing().then(
    p => {
      if (current) setState({pokemon: p, status: 'success'})
    },
    e => {
      if (current) setState({error: e, status: 'error'})
    },
  )
  return () => (current = false)
}, [pokemonName])

// render stuff based on the state
```

However, for "bootstrap" type data, we can start that request before we even
render the app. The best approaches to using Suspense involve kicking off the
request for the data as soon as you have the information you need for the
request. This is called the "Render as you fetch" approach. We'll get into that
a little bit more in future exercises, but keep that in mind.

📜 Here are some docs for you if you need them:

- [`<React.Suspense />`](https://reactjs.org/docs/concurrent-mode-reference.html#suspense)

### Promises

Through all of this you should have a firm understanding of promises. Here's a
quick example though:

```javascript
const handleSuccess = result => console.log(result)
const handleFailure = error => console.error(error)

const myPromise = someAsyncFunction().then(handleSuccess, handleFailure)
```

## Exercise

Production deploys:

- [Exercise](https://react-suspense.netlify.app/isolated/exercise/01.js)
- [Final](https://react-suspense.netlify.app/isolated/final/01.js)

In this exercise, we have a page that's specifically for the pokemon named
Pikachu and we want to load Pikachu's data as soon as the app starts. You're
going to use an `ErrorBoundary` that I've built for you (as relevant as they are
to this topic, the concept of `Error Boundaries` long pre-dates Suspense, so we
won't be getting into it for this workshop). You'll also be using the
`React.Suspense` API.

## Extra Credit

### 1. 💯 add error handling with an Error Boundary

[Production deploy](https://react-suspense.netlify.app/isolated/final/01.extra-1.js)

What happens if you mistype `pikachu` and instead try to request `pikacha`? This
will result in an error and we need to handle this.

In React, the way we handle component errors is with an `ErrorBoundary`.

> 📜 Read up on
> [Error Boundaries](https://reactjs.org/docs/error-boundaries.html) if you
> haven't used them much before.

We've got an `PokemonErrorBoundary` component all built-out for you and you can
import it from the `pokemon` file (It's where we're getting the
`PokemonDataView` component right now).

So you'll wrap your component in an ErrorBoundary for handling that error. But
then you need to turn your promise's error into an error the ErrorBoundary can
handle.

For this extra credit, think of the error as similar to the pokemon data. You'll
need a handler to get access to the error object, and then instead of _using_ it
in your JSX, you can simply _throw_ it in your render method:

```javascript
function Example() {
  if (error) {
    throw error
  }
  // ... etc
}
```

Give that a try!

### 2. 💯 make more generic createResource

[Production deploy](https://react-suspense.netlify.app/isolated/final/01.extra-2.js)

This is also a JavaScript refactor, but in this case we want to make a generic
"resource factory" which has the following API:

```javascript
const resource = createResource(someAsyncThing())

function MyComponent() {
  const myData = resource.read()
  // render myData stuff
}
```

Try to refactor your code a bit to have a resource factory we can use for all
our async needs.

### 3. 💯 Use utils

[Production deploy](https://react-suspense.netlify.app/isolated/final/01.extra-3.js)

There are a few of utilities in the `src/utils.js` file that we'll be using a
bunch during this workshop. Refactor your code to use `createResource` from the
`utils.js` and `PokemonInfoFallback` from the `src/pokemon.js` file for this
one!

## 🦉 Feedback

Fill out
[the feedback form](https://ws.kcd.im/?ws=React%20Suspense%20%F0%9F%94%80&e=01%3A%20Simple%20Data-fetching&em=jaquinoemail%40gmail.com).
